---
layout: layout.njk
title: "Dear Joe Biden,"
---

You do not know me, and all I know of you is what I have seen through your
career. I believe you are a man of integrity, who believes in the merit of
truth. Someone who desires unity, and demonstrates how we get through
difficulties by coming together.

I believe you are courageous enough to admit when you are wrong and change your
beliefs and actions as you learn what the people you serve need.

I also believe we have much in common. That we share the belief that integrity
uproots corruption. That hope soothes fear. That truth outshines disinformation
and lies. That the way through suffering is not to give in to urges for cruelty
and violence, but to provide kindness to those who suffer most.

And I hope that you can take a moment out of your day in these difficult,
traumatic times to get to know me and hear my pleas.

## I am no one.

I am not an expert on law or policy. I am not a brilliant economist or financial
expert. I know nothing about campaigning or public relations. I have no real
wisdom beyond what little I have earned in a few short decades.

I'm just one person, watching terrified as systemic socioeconomic and biological
forces sweep away what little hope I have been able to hold onto as more and
more of my family, friends, and neighbors struggle to survive in a nation which
has prioritized the wants of the wealthy over the needs of all.

I was born in Owosso, Michigan in the late 80s, a half-hour drive from Flint,
Michigan. I grew up in a state surviving the economic devastation created by the
failure of the automotive industry to adapt and change to the needs of its
customers and workers.

This failure was, and still is, felt by all in Michigan; with our black, brown
and indigenous neighbors bearing the brunt of the suffering.

And as our nation grapples with an illness whose short and long term impact is
beyond comprehension; I fear that our Government, the Democratic Party, and (by
extension) you are making the same mistake.

## Everything has changed.

Over the last fifty years we have seen the rise of automation. Computers and
robotics fuel productivity gains on par or exceeding the inventions of
agriculture and the printing press. These gains were predominantly distributed
not to everyday Americans, but to investors and corporate executives.

Over the last twenty years we have survived two massive economic crashes and an
unceasing, six trillion dollar war that ravages nations and claims hundreds of
thousands of lives.

Today we huddle poised on the brink of devastation, as COVID-19 wipes away tens,
if not hundreds, of thousands of lives in a matter of months.

It is easy to give in to despair. But I am an American and a Midwesterner. I'm
stubborn. I'm idealistic. And I'm unwilling to give up when I can still choose
to cling to the hope that you, I, and the American people have learned from
these challenges and mistakes.

We learned that there is nothing to fear but fear itself. That giving into fear
creates suffering, not security.

We learned that war does not bring justice, but perpetuates the cycle of abuse
and oppression.

We learned that prudent regulation, accountability, and oversight reduces
violent crime, stabilizes our markets, and restores vibrancy to our beautiful
country.

We learned that investments in public infrastructure are the most powerful tools
for securing liberty and justice for all.

You helped usÂ learn these things. Your work as Obama's Vice President between
2008 and 2016 along with the efforts of our other representatives and public
servants safely stabilized the recession and initiated a recovery that
replenished and grew our nations' wealth and health despite rigorous opposition.

And, despite being in an era of unimaginable wealth, millions of American's
shelter, food, and healthcare is at risk or already stripped away due to
circumstances beyond our control.

## We are suffering.

We ask ourselves, where is the America we learned about in school? An America
that, when faced with cruelty and oppression said "All are created equal?" An
America that was willing to tear itself apart and put itself back together to
ensure that no person may have their bodies or minds owned and enslaved by
another?

An America that proudly proclaimed "Give me your tired, your poor, Your huddled
masses yearning to breathe free?"

Over the last half a century we all chose, time and again, to compromise with
those who do not believe that all are created equal. That the rights we have
enshrined in our constitution are primarily for those with wealth, power, and
connections.

These compromises created space for cruelty to grow.

We gave a stronger voice to those who believe black people deserve to be shot in
the streets. That immigrants are a liability, not an asset. That we were
justified in our abuses of the indigenous people who were here long before our
ancestors. That we cannot afford to guarantee shelter, food, healthcare, and
education for all because it would require people who have wealth to be
selfless.

With every compromise the United States of America cracked. And now, we are
shattered.

## But all is not lost.

We can and will put our nation back together. Not as it was, but more
sustainably, more just and more resilient for all people.

To do so, we need elected officials who fight for the rights of every American
to be granted shelter, food, medical care, and an education without personal
cost.

We need statesmen who work directly to address the suffering caused by our past
and present abuses and exploitation of black, brown and indigenous peoples.

We need decision makers who will choose infrastructure, not endless war.

We need representatives who crave accountability to their constituents, the free
press, and the judicial system.

We need business owners who will repair our ecosystem, not just our economy; and
create a better world for our grandchildren's grandchildren.

We need governors who will dismantle the police-state that kills hundreds and
incarcerates millions; disproportionately stripping them of their liberty.

We need negotiators who will not compromise with those who act in bad-faith. Who
refuse to allow greedy people to use their power to abuse the public trust,
enrich themselves, and extract wealth from their neighbors, workers and
customers.

## Please, help us.

We make the following pleas:

Make consistent, strong, and clear statements about how you will guarantee access
to shelter, food, healthcare, and education for all Americans.

Produce and distribute clear, well-researched, and direct plans for how you will
stem the growth of inequality in America by prioritizing the needs of our most
vulnerable populations, even if it costs the most resilient Americans some of
their wealth.

Show us how to build unity, not by compromising with those who advocate for
cruelty, but through solidarity with those who are suffering.

And if you cannot or will not, I beg of you: drop out. Lend your experience,
wisdom, expertise, negotiation skills, and connections to those who can and
will.

Sincerely,

Zee Spencer, 94609

## Cosigned

- [Vikram Rojo, 80904](https://twitter.com/atav1k/status/1247185259415793667?s=20)

[#DearJoePlease] was published on April 4th, 2020, if you agree with this
message, please join me in calling for Joe to take a public stance that he will
do the work to address inequality in America in a safe, well-thought out way
that prioritizes the needs of the most vulnerable.

You can become a cosigner of [#DearJoePlease], by making a public social media
post that looks something like:

> #DearJoePlease publicly demonstrate your commitment to healthcare, housing,
> food, and wealth for all Americans with plans that address the socioeconomic
> needs of the most vulnerable Americans. I co-sign
> [https://www.dearjoeplease.com][#dearjoeplease]

Once you've done so provide your name, zip code, and a link to the post in the
following form and I'll add you to the list of signatories:

<iframe class="airtable-embed" src="https://airtable.com/embed/shrKRzdHD0PSn4V98?backgroundColor=green" frameborder="0" onmousewheel="" width="100%" height="533" style="background: transparent;"></iframe>

[#dearjoeplease]: https://www.dearjoeplease.com/
